The great great master of Phowa Rumbu said, or in other teachings too, is that generally there is
many divisions of Phowa.
It's not just the five Phowa, there are a lot of varieties of divisions of Phowa, but the great
master of Phowa Rumbu Ji and the Nintang Masters summarize all Phowa into five as we listed.
And those are Dharmakaya, Sammukaya, and then Makaya. And then for three intensions and help to the
others, those are five Phoas.
And Dharmakaya Phowa is that, the Dharmakaya Phowa is the best, or this is the supreme Phoas.
Dharmakaya Phowa, there is a particular, for example, in Nama, what's called this, the three int
ensions of Phowa, explaining about where that consciousness lives,
when we die, which is best to lead the consciousness. But Dharmakaya Phowa has no difference.
Everything is the same.
Everything is Dharmakaya. Dharmakaya means not just a localized status. The whole is, whole
universe, whole world, everything is within the Dharmakaya status.
There is no really difference at all. So there is, therefore, there is no need in the strengthens
of the way, caution as well, the leap.
Leap is all Dharmakaya status. These Dharmakaya Phowa practices, as Sammukaya said, I said the
other day, they is Dzogchen practitioners.
Dzogchen practitioners, Dzogchen has two practices that we all, known as, we are from the beginning
practices of the Tuturi,
and the serpentine is the leaping over practicing of the Togal practices. These both practices are
Dzogchen practices.
How we can do these practices, that, of course, we all present, that has stopped so many times.
So there is nothing much to say. But it is, how to start is the same.
When Mr. Prakash said, three extension phowa, same, with joy and appreciation, both each other, and
purely understanding.
All the three ways are same. We have to have that ground. Joy, appreciation, both each other,
purity, understanding, or realization, any devotions, those are necessary.
Otherwise, even if you receive the Dzogchen teaching of the Tuturi and the Poga, it won't benefit.
It becomes intellectuals. Or maybe it becomes skeptical or suspicious.
Skeptical and suspicious and all that, then what? That means we are not really, have not settled.
We are not settled. We are shaking. Intellectual is, in Buddhism, very important.
You heard this with Buddha taught. Even Buddha himself said, "Don't rely on my word that what I
said."
But you should examine yourself, then if you feel it's true, you can then go there.
So that means, Buddha himself told to be intellectual. To analyze, intellectual is important.
But that, we should do that intellectually. That is when we are studying.
Starting time, we should be intellectual. Actual and thinking and analyzing, question and answer,
all that.
Then what in Buddhism? The wisdom that comes from studying. So that is studying time. Then what
comes from compilations?
That time still you can linger it. You can discuss it. You can be intellectually analyzed and all
that.
Compilating times, too. But then, around the counter-pollated time, and then when you come to the
practice, or meditation, then you settle it.
That means, the practitioner said, "There is no more lingering, no more kind of thinking in the day
."
Then if you start thinking in an intellectual way, it's more conceptions, more thought. It's not
going to go any.
It's that way. We are only kind of hovering in the surface. Not going deep. Just on the surface.
And it's not really going to break the resort. Big resort.
I mean, you came, of course, in the teaching. He said, "Hearing the Buddha's teaching, definitely
it has big benefits."
Teaching. But I really like to get the benefit, as the teaching is mentioned, that won't come with
an analytic and a skepticalness.
So it has to be there for this joy, appreciation, and then bodhicitta, unity, understanding,
realization, devotion.
Those all combined together will absorb the teaching into the heart.
And within the heart, as I said earlier, that nature is, then it merges to the nature. Then it
breaks the resort.
So it's the same. Now, when you resist that teaching, when you begin to practice, and practice is
the same.
Again, with the lineage prayers, the lineage prayers, bodhicitta, all those lineage prayers, taking
bodhicitta, and also devotion prayers that we do.
Those all. And then meditate. Meditate.
A meditate has two meditations in a doki teaching, tokyo and a toga, as I said.
Tokyo meditation is then relaxing nature, mind in nature, sitting exactly as it is, without any
constructions.
Constructions rest on the present status, as it is.
That means the present is not the present, but in the conceptual level. But what the teaching says,
go beyond three times.
Fast, present, and future. Go three times. And then relax. And that fourth time in the teaching.
Relax in that status. Then simply relax in that natural state.
And not follow in thought, not pursue in a thought, not remove in a thought, not analyze in a
thought, simply relax.
All thought comes, let it come, let it go, be in the natural state.
Those are the natural thoughts and states. Those are the tokyo practices.
So now, when you got the realization of the tokyo, this realization, what the realization of the
true, a tokyo realization,
is realizing the true nature that which is beyond the conception, beyond the world, beyond the
language.
That's what the greatest teacher, the great Master Chantalaki said, as he joined in the beginning
of Heart Satra.
Inconceivable, unexpressed school, beyond the coming and the going, but naturally the sky,
experienced by only one's own pristine awareness cognitions.
That is the realization of the tokyo.
There is nothing, anything, kind of restrictions, any regulators or holding or the focus.
It just provides total freedom, freedom status.
So this is, when you got this realization, it is like exactly, exactly as it is when you got
realization.
That time, according in the teaching, you are already in a Dharmakaya power status, Dharmakaya
power status.
That individual, no need to do any of that because you are already in a Dharmakaya status.
Status, status and that ultimate state of power.
And then, together with these two practices, toka practices, the tokyo toka practices.
That is like, revealing the quality of the nature of the mind.
The nature of the mind is what?
When you look to the nature of the mind, it is beyond the conception, as I said.
That is the teaching said and that is something we also experience when we meditate.
It is beyond the concept, there is nothing to do, hold or label anything, that is nature.
But that nature is not just a blank emptiness status.
It is full of vitality, full of clarity.
So breathe, meditate on that clarity.
That is toka practices, simple to tell. Clarity or the light that building qualities, toka
practices.
And then, when you practice toka, resilience, stroke and toka practice,
all universe and everything is transformed or see as rainbow light, rainbow space, rainbow space.
This rainbow light is not just coming from out.
According to the Doki teaching, it is emerging from our nature of the river or the awareness.
That clarity of the river, transformed or that see that everything is just as rainbow light.
When you have that realization, also in this lifetime,
if you are already in the greatest dasudendre, lustre, huwa status, huwa status, ultimate state of
all,
you have your realization.
In the Doki, Poga, Poga teaching said those different stages, whatever, you got that realization.
Then, already you reach that state, you don't have to direct this and that.
Everything becomes as in light of your land, of the discipline, of the dasudendre, of the visible
rainbow.
So you are already in light of state.
That is known as the Dharmakaya Poas.
But then somehow, we had that realization, let it be, but not exactly that completely fulfilled.
Exactly that status in this lifetime.
Then, this Dharmakaya Poa is, there is a big opportunity to get the Dharmakaya Poa status.
Yes, moment of death or just at the time of the death in the teaching.
Then, according, again we told that, I mean the teaching said, what that worked out.
It said, for example, when we passing away, there is so many different signs externally,
all that merging from one to another, to all one after another going,
and the end, toward the end of the merging, our two elements, particularly that element,
that we obtained from our parents.
White element and red element, that is going to merge.
They're not going to, prison time, their element, that essence element is all of the voting.
It's not just 180.
But particularly, the central location of the, those focal point of the, location of the white
element,
according to the teaching, that we, which we obtained from our father,
is residing mainly on the current jakras.
And the particularly red element that we received from our mother, that essence,
that essence is residing mainly in the below, never centuries, when we're alive.
But when we are dying, that time, all elements are dissolved, merging one after another.
So then, these two elements are also losing our positions.
They're not going to say where it used to be.
It is going to merge.
That, in the teaching said, and that focus is, is the father element,
the white element is coming down from the current jakras, is a descendant, descendant.
At that time, what is the inner visions in the teaching said?
Individual experience, all is like flash, flash, flash light, white light, flash, flash, flash.
And then, when the red element is losing the position, is outward, is it ascending?
Is it ascending outward?
That time, that individually there were experience, the current teaching all become reddish, red
experience.
This generally, this red and white, again in the teaching said, those practitioner, toga
practitioners,
when they see the light practice, this, this is a display.
It's not really happening in big things, it's just an inner vision.
And therefore, toga practice, that they connect immediately, that is a display of the request,
that one's own awareness, then they can reach, they can reach to the dharmakaya status, status.
When these two elements are merged, come up, one is coming up, one is coming down,
then it comes to the beatman, beatman, our consciousness.
Consciousness, according to Buddhism, is in heart center.
So now, these two elements are trapped, to, trapped the consciousness.
So that means, come to lock it.
White came down, came down, red come up, and in between, our own consciousness is completely
trapped.
That moment, what that individual is experiencing, according, completely become blank, dark,
all blank, completely can't avoidness, completely appeared.
Keep it. That means, that happening, that how long that lasts?
In the teaching said, maybe one instant, it won't stay long.
Average, it won't stay. And then, it will, that force will lose, lose.
And these two elements are parting, in a way, kind of separated, in a way, separate.
That moment, the consciousness is completely become, waked up, in a way, it's coming, waking up.
That moment, that instant, according to Dokriti or the inner center, everyone said,
that time, experience is a Dharmakaya experience.
There is no, any blockades, brilliant, clay, as like autumn sky.
Autumn sky is what, in the teaching said, is free from dust, free from the dust of,
so free from the dust, free from the dust of the, of the water, and free from of the, of the cloud
ed mists.
That time, autumn sky is so brilliant.
Similarly, that experience is brilliant vastness, experience, one can't.
That is, when you shine, that is, that is known as the ordinary nature of the, the great emptiness
or the Dharmakaya.
As one, those practitioners, when they practice the meditative, when they experience,
for example, two, two practices, now that time, really they recognize, oh, that is the nature.
So they, what they, they know, what is shining is completely merged.
And that is known as meeting the mother and the child, luminosity token, completely merged.
That moment, that individual is totally, again, digital Dharmakaya status.
Dharmakaya question, that is Dharmakaya status.
And somehow, that individual is not reached in life, but there, there.
But there are good practices, you know, Toga.
Toga, right after that, then there is the display or the gauntlet of the awareness will shine, g
auntlet.
And that is the coming as from the, like sunlight or the northern light, northern light coming.
And those are the what, in the teachings said, sound, light and the beams of light.
Light is kind of coming, coming.
At that moment, those people who are practicing, who practice Toga in his life, immediately
recognize,
is not coming from anywhere, is one's own display of the raka, raka.
And recognize that and merging it with or as a, as a interference as you want it to be relaxed,
object to object.
Immediately merge it through that.
At that moment, they reach for some Dharmakaya status.
So these both are known as, that all known as Dharmakaya focus in the teaching stage.
All is Dharmakaya.
One, the first one is reach Dharmakaya state within these lifetimes.
But somehow that didn't happen and then they moved, they reach Dharmakaya status in the, just right
after that or that.
And those sign of those, those who reach Dharmakaya status, they can meditate for many days.
Those people who are meditating after they died, those are the according teaching,
they are reached Dharmakaya state of the Toga.
They are able to meditate.
Their body, the complexion is not changed.
And it's not so fresh or maybe even become more fresh than their lives.
And so beautiful body become flexible or some, it depends individually.
I mean that flexible, brilliant, those are the inwardly signs.
Outer signs are building the sky, rainbow light and then the song and all those things in the
teaching stage.
Those are the outer signs, sign of the reaching to them Dharmakaya Toga status.
So that is the best.
The second one is,